Germany is making a further €1 million
EUR available for humanitarian Aid to
Gaza foreign minister analena babok has
been holding talks in the region in the
occupied West Bank she called for the
Palestinian Authority to play a role in
post-war Gaza in Jerusalem bebook
criticized the Israeli government over
settler violence she says these actions
damage Israel's interests in the long
term parts of the Israeli government
ition are stirring up trouble and
endangering Israeli security interests
in the long term with their aggressive
settler
policy Israel's strength lies in its
liberal
democracy the shocking reports of cruel
detention conditions for Palestinian
prisoners in Israeli camps and prisons
do not fit in with Israel's own claim to
be a democracy and constitutional
state let's get a broader perspective on
these developments Randa slim is a
foreign policy specialist from the
us-based Middle East Institute she joins
us now from Washington welcome to DW
Randa we just heard unusually explicit
criticism from babok there how
significant is that coming from the
German foreign
minister it is significant because until
now Germany has been one of the
strongest supporters of Israel um
especially also of its war in Gazza and
so um you know it's better that it's
coming but uh in my opinion it's a bit
late it should have come much earlier
especially in in in rejection of the war
in Gaza and Israel's war there yeah beok
also warned about the dangerous
situation in Lebanon on Israel's
northern border she says she's working
hard on finding solutions to prevent
more suffering but to what extent is
Germany really involved in efforts to
diffuse tensions between Israel and
esbah it's not involved in any
significant way I think it's involved
through the European Union it's involved
through its relationship with with
Washington the two primary parties that
are now involved in seeking deescalation
pushing a diplomatic process to
resolving the conflict on hisb between
hisbah and Israel has been the United
States of course first and then second
France and they are now working together
in tendon now Germany has some impact in
terms of basically you know pushing the
the the alarm on sounding the alarm on
any potential escalation between hisbah
and Israel into an allout war and it
will have an impact because it has shown
itself to be a strong supporter of
Israel and so if that if in case there
is this kind of escalation that leads to
an allout War I mean Germany has some
leverage in basically saying you know we
are not supporting the Israeli action um
on this front especially If it threatens
to devolve into an allout War yeah and
well she hasn't said that quite yet
Israel on the other hand yesterday
announced it will move some of its
troops from Gaza to the border with
Lebanon in your opinion how volatile is
the situation there right
now the situation is very volatile I
think there has been a long-standing
conflict between HB and Israel I have
not seen the kind of rhetorical
escalation between them in in this way
it's unprecedented in in the history of
this conflict but also the time of
military escalation that's taking place
you know with the two parties striking
deeper into each other's territories and
still there are certain Unwritten ground
rules that are trying not to violate
especially when it comes to hitting
civilians but the escalation is really
significant and in my opinion we are
really right now at dangerous moment in
this confrontation between them that can
that can basically move into an all at
War any any time any Mistake
miscalculation by either party can
really push the the the confrontation
which has so far been limited to border
clashes between the two sides into an
allout allout Regional war and you have
seen Iraqi militias that are affiliated
with Iran coming out strongly saying
they will be coming in to fight on the
side of hisbah you are going to see more
from other members of the Iran um you
know pro-iran resistance AIS um also
coming uh to the front basically
threatening to get involved in this
contest in this conflict if the
escalation were to happen yeah let's
talk about the role of Iran here because
Hezbollah is of course mostly defunded
by a Terran if a full-blown War really
were to break out with Israel how would
you expect Iran to react to behave
it all depends on whether that war will
present an existential threat to hisbah
that's the red line for for Iran uh as
as long as long as hisbah will be able
to defend itself will be able to you
know engage in that war without any kind
of threat to its U continued existence
as a anchor of the Iran lead resistance
access I don't think Iran will get
involved directly it will definitely
prompt
uh other members of the pro-iran
resistance access to get involved it
will uh uh not only involved in Lebanon
but also involved in other fronts like
uh attacks against maybe us assets from
Iraqi militias in Iraq attacks on us
Assets in Syria attacks on us assets and
Israeli Assets in the Mediterranean Sea
so that's the kind of involvement but
once once the threshold is crossed in
terms of that war representing any kind
of existential threat tobah then you are
going to see Iran getting directly
involved in the war the Middle East a
powder CAG still and for the foreseeable
future by the sound of it Randa slim of
the US based Middle East Institute thank
you so
much thank
you morning now I'm joined by journalist
Stella Mena from Beirut Stella we have
just heard unusually clear criticism
from barbach there how significant is
coming from the German foreign
minister of course criticism coming from
Germany is one of Israel's allies as
more significant than if there's
critique coming from other countries but
the question is rather if bearbox
criticism will have any consequences the
US government who's also a very
important partner for Israel has
criticized the government many times
before and even hold back bombs or
Fighters and yet these actions have not
really led to any change in Nan's policy
and the question is of course whether
Germany wants to continue criticizing
only by using words or if it will take
further diplomatic
actions now the German foreign minister
also warned about the dangerous
situation in Lebanon just North of
Israel is that another focus of her
trip yes the situation uh in the Border
region is definitely a major focus of
her trip after book's visit in romela
she flew directly to Beirut where she
met with the caretaker caretaker prime
minister miti and the Minister of
Foreign Affairs buh Habib and as we
speak right now Beach is supposed to be
at the airport leaving beay in a
statement published by the German
Ministry of Foreign AFF Affairs earlier
uh it says that Germany wants to to
prevent an escalation of the fighting in
the Border region into a bigger Regional
war and uh the statement also mentions
that Germany sees the implementation of
UN resolution
1701 as a solution for this conflict
that would mean that Hezbollah has to
withdraw its troops from the region
south of Lani
River the German foreign minister has
visited the region there multiple times
since the October 7th attacks how much
weight does Germany carry as a
diplomatic player in Israel and the
surrounding
region well it's quite hard to say how
much of an impact bebook was able to
make with this visit when it comes to
Israel is quite clear that Germany is an
important partner for the Israeli
government but when we talk about the
surrounding Arab countries burok uh
diplomatic power is limited Germany's
strong support for the for Israel in the
current Gaza War especially through
weapon supply has caused a lot of
criticism in the region uh as well as in
Lebanon and uh in Lebanon Beach was
originally supposed to meet with the
speaker of parliament Nai ber who's very
close to hisb but this meeting was
cancelled officially because the time
schedules were incompatible but of
course this uh still says something
about uh the priority bebook uh is for
Barry
Stella thanks for taking time to talk
with us today that was journalist Stella
Mena for inbay rout